Alright, in this video I want to look at
the reversed function. So we'll continue
with gobackwards.py but we're going
to use a different loop, to iterate
backwards over our lists. This time I'll
use the reversed function. So let's see
what the documentation has to say about it.
So I'm going to come down here and click on
reversed. So the reversed function returns
a reverse iterator. An iterator is what
takes care of iterating over something.
When you use a for loop, Python creates
an iterator for you, and that's why
modifying the loop control variable
doesn't work, by the way. The iterator is
keeping track of where it was in the
sequence and resets the loop control
variable, when the next item is requested.
I don't want to complicate things by
talking about iterators in detail, just
yet. This documentation is confusing
enough. It talks about underscore
underscore reversed underscore
underscore methods, and get item with
integer arguments starting at zero.
It makes no sense.
Don't worry though, it will. At the moment,
all we're interested in, is that this
function gives us a way to iterate over
a sequence in reverse. Anything that
supports the sequence protocol is a
sequence, and our lists our sequences. So
back to our code. Let's see how to use
reversed when looping. The advantage of
using reversed is that it lets us
use enumerate. So what I'm going to do is
comment out this code from line six
through nine. Then line 10, well actually
line 11, I'm going to type for index comma
value in enumerate left parenthesis
reversed left parenthesis data, and our
two right parentheses and a colon. And
let's now print out index and value to
see what we're getting.
So print parentheses index comma value
right parenthesis, and let's run the
program.
You can see we're getting the items in
reverse order - 108 appears first in the
output. That's at index position zero. You
may not have expected that because it's
at position 12 in the original list, up
here on lines one and two. When you use a
reversed iterator, the index positions
relate to the data in reverse order.
The indexes, in other words, still start at
zero. The last item we get, looking at
the list down there, right down the
bottom there, line, the output 12, or
index position 12, and the value of 104.
It's easy to get the correct index
positions. All we need to do is just
subtract index from 12, in this case.
We want our code to work with different
lists, so we won't use the literal value 12.
Instead, we'll use one less than the
length of the list. So let's write some
code for that. So up on line 11, I'm
going to start by typing top underscore
index is equal to len parentheses data
minus 1. Now that we've done that,
on our print out, here on line 13, we can
type top_index minus index,
instead of just index. Run the program,
and this time we get the real index
positions of each value in our list, on
lines 1 & 2. The rest of the code is as
we've used before, so I'm going to just
type that in quickly.
We'll leave the print in, but we need to
add an if up here; if value is less then
min_valid, or value is
greater than max_valid colon.
Then we want to indent our print.
Then we also want to delete the data on
the next line, so del space data, and it's
going to be top_index minus
index. Alright so I'll run the program,
and we see the values that will be removed and
then the final list. Now once again,
you should test this properly. Copy the data
from outliers.py and test with each
one of those lists. It does work but
don't take my word for it.
Test it yourself to be sure. If you get a problem,
check your code carefully.
Alright, so that's two ways to iterate
backwards over a sequence.
I think the second method is actually
easier to understand. It's pretty obvious
that we were reversing the list on line 12.
It's harder to work out, though, what line
six is doing, without a bit of thought.
The second way is also slightly more
efficient, once you get above 1,000 items
in the list. Using enumerate is more
efficient than those index lookups on
line seven. That brings me nicely to the
question I asked earlier. Both of those
loops are only three lines long, if you
ignore the diagnostic print lines. Both
of them also work well with sorted data,
as well. So switching back to
outliers.py, why did I write all this
code earlier. We'll see why in the next
video.